>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That's all
pretty good and I'm gonna say that if you
stop there and you're validating your API,
I think that's totally valid.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: There is
a better way to validate that is not built
into ASP.Net core, a library that I
use a lot called Fluent Validation.
I don't like the attributes as I don't
like the validation attributes in general.
First of all,
they lack a little bit of flexibility.
If you need to add any kind
of custom behavior to them,
then you're forced to create a custom
validator, which in and of itself,
is fine, but the custom Validation Logic
is a little cumbersome to write.
It involves implementing something
called ivalidatable object.
And on that target object.
And I have to say, it's not pretty.
I can't say that I love the syntax for
actually trying to
validate an object either.
You can see that the arguments
to try validate object
are a little fairly convoluted.
You can see that we get our employee
request, we have to create a validation
context for, as I mentioned,
God knows what reason.
I do also believe that our request object
because I believe in you to taskers, and
I believe in one thing doing
something really well.
I wanna separate my request
object from my validation object.
And maybe the big killer of all of this
is the fact that async validation.
So async where you're able to call async
methods, is not built into asp.net core,
which I believe is fairly large oversight
in terms of the validation story.
But luckily, we have an excellent library
called fluent validation that we can use
to handle all of this.
First of all,
we can create our separate validators.
We can separate those objects.
We don't have to have required attributes.
We can simply explicitly define
them inside of a validator,
which is what I often do.
It supports both synchronous and
async validation,
which we'll see a few examples
of later in the course.
And it does provide a really
clean validation API.
And it's truly fluent in
that sense of the word.
It almost reads like English.
Let me show you first things first.
We're gonna go to our project here,
and we are going to go command P,
and we are gonna focus on our NuGet view,
boom.
And I am going to.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yes, ignore all.
I'll stop with the pop ups VS code.
We're gonna type in fluent validation, and
we are going to install
this into our project.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Awesome,
looking good so far.
And then we're gonna start by
create employee request validator.
We'll also install this other NuGet, so
I'll hit the plus sign on that one, boom.
So it's fluent validation.dependency
injection extensions,
which we'll see a use of that in a bit.
And so I'm gonna go ahead and
copy and paste this, and
we're gonna change up
a little bit of the code.
First of all, we are going to get
rid of our required attributes.
We're not gonna need
them here very shortly.
And then I'm gonna scroll down,
I'm gonna paste this in, and
I'm gonna create a validator
that first things first.
It inherits from abstract validator.
So I'm gonna hit command,
I import fluent validation, and
I'm gonna give it the generic
argument of create employee request.
That's the object that we are validating.
And I'm gonna say the rule for
first name is that it should not be empty.
That's pretty much the exact same thing.
Empty in this case is defined as
an empty string or a null string.
So that's exactly what we want.
Lastly, we need to register
builder.services.add validators from
assembly containing.
And that is when we installed
the dependency injection extensions.
We added a few tools that we can use to
add these validators to our dependency
injection pipeline,
which we'll go ahead and do.
So we're gonna go down here,
builder.services.
We're going to using fluent validation,
boom,
add validators from assembly containing.
And it's basically, you just give it
a type of the thing that you want to have
this method scan the assembly of.
So we're just gonna say program,
which is pretty typical.
And now it's going to go through
every type inside of program and
figure out if it inherits from abstract
validator, then it will add it
to the dependency injection pipeline for
use by our services.
So we can go down here and
we can in our post
endpoint actually get
a copy of Ivalidator.
So I'm gonna put this on this function.
I'm gonna put these arguments on
a separate line just to make it a little
clearer.
So we're gonna add in another argument
to this lambda that we've created here.
And we are going to say Ivalidator,
which if you look at the signature for
Ivalidator.
That is what the type is registered
as inside of dependency injection.
So we've got Ivalidator and we're going
to say of create employee request.
We're gonna say validate,
pretty good so far.
And then we can refactor our method to
instead of doing all of this crazy stuff,
we're going to just copy and
paste a little bit of simpler code.
We have a.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach:
Validator.validateasync, and we say,
if validation results is valid, then we
would just return the validation problem
and we give it the validation results
that we got back from our validator.
One thing I wanna mention, you obviously
see the squiggly lines here, and
that's because we don't have
this marked as an async method.
So we can mark it as an async task
returning method by simply typing async.
Right up here, that function
modifier before our arguments list.
And then you can see the compiler is very
happy with that because now we have our
async method,
which is exactly what we want.
So let's test, let's run our tests and
make sure that our validator
method is working as we expect.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay, and
we've got a little bit of a problem here,
which is that our validation format
coming back from validate our fluent
validation endpoint doesn't have the exact
same message as we would expect.
So we can fix our tests
to ensure that that is.
It's failing right here.
So we will just go ahead and
copy these lines.
So the default error messages that you get
back from fluent validation are of course
going to have a slightly different
language than what's in ASP.NET.
There's no worries there cuz we
can simply update our validator.
Our API is still young,
we don't have to worry about that.
So we'll go here, we will paste that in,
go here, rerun our tests,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
you can see that they pass.
So we've added dependency injection,
we've added our validators to our
dependency injection pipeline.
We've injected that into our method so
that our method can use it, so
that it can validate the object.
And we've refactored the tests to make
sure that these messages are what we
expect.
A couple other notes.
I wanna go back to our create
employee request validator here.
So, we say the rule for, and we give it
an expression to select that property,
and then we say, for
that property we want it to not be empty.
We can specify a couple
of other things here.
We can start by saying with message, and
we can give it our own
first name is required.
The error message that is
being sent back to our client.
The fluent part of fluent validation
is kind of this chain method that,
as I mentioned,
kind of reads like English.
These are typically referred to as fluent
APIs, and they're just nice to use
because they feel very natural,
and they chain upon one another.
So first name is required.
We would go back and
we would see that our test would fail
because we changed our error message.
So we'll run our tests and
you can see our test now fails.
But if we go back here.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Say
first name is required.
If we wanted to specify
a custom error message and
you can see that now our
endpoint happily says.
And happily sends back the correct message
and that our test verifies that that's
the error message that we're getting back,
which is exactly what we want.
So, you'll notice that in the method
inside of the validator
that we defined here.
We defined a validator and
you don't see really any async stuff.
And so why do we call async or
validate async?
Well, it's because of the nature of real
world business programs often require that
you might have to make some asynchronous
call in order to validate that the object
is as you expect.
For instance, you might call out to
a database to make sure that the object is
in a specific state before you're
able to allow allowed to update it.
So say, for example,
that we wanted to verify
that when we create an employee with
a certain social security number.
We wanna make sure that not only can the
social security number not be empty, but
it must be created and
it must be unique within the system.
We can actually refactor assuming that we
had some kind of method on our repository
to get employee by social security number.
We could actually create extend
our validator to actually look
inside of our repository if it's
an asynchronous method which
most repositories
are gonna be asynchronous.
I did the synchronous versions just for
simplicity sake.
And call this async task in order to make
sure that the employee that we're creating
is really unique by
social security number.
And this is really important because this
happens all the time in the real world.
And this is, again,
not something that you can do,
at least in the built-in validation
stuff at the ASP.NET Core.
So anyways, this won't compile.
I'm just providing it as a sample.
So if you copy and paste it in,
it's not gonna find the Git
employee by social security number.
I do wanna call out one other thing, which
is that you can use fluent validation to
create some pretty complex validators,
but in a kind of a very neat and
organized way.
You'll notice that right after I define
my rule for social security number,
I have this thing called a cascade rule.
And it basically says, if one validator
fails, because for this property,
we're actually validating that it's
not empty and that it must be unique.
We actually say that we want to
stop execution of this if the first
validator fails.
The fluent validation's built-in
behavior is to validate everything.
So this will allow it to short circuit and
stop if the social security number is
empty, then of course we don't need to
check our database to see if it's unique
because we don't have one specified.
A couple of other cool
features that it has.
Is that because it's purpose built for
validation and it is incredibly powerful,
fluent validator does allow you
to do some fairly unique stuff.
So we demonstrated that
this social security
number will stop after it
determines that it's empty.
But what if you wanna validate based
on some kind of value that's coming in?
Maybe you don't need to validate
address to city, state zip,
unless address one is not null.
Well, you can say that for your rule
that you can specify that if address
one is not null, then we wanna
go ahead and run these rules.
But if they haven't created
the employee with an address,
then we don't really care.
So you can create all kinds of unique
behaviors with fluent validation that make
it really powerful to use.
And it is my validator,
this is the framework that I use for
validation period in all of
my ASP.NET Core API projects.